Feature/m0269 md 325 update how to debug gui (#769)
MicroEJ/docs: Tutorials/tutorialDebugGUIperformancesIssues.rst

The documentation of MicroUI Flush Visualizer is available :ref:`here<microuiflushvisualizer>`.

Debugging GUIs
--------------

High-level Debugging and Optimizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section provides insights into common issues affecting performances on the high-level side. The following advices will help reduce the MWT processing and drawing time.

Format of UI Resources
**********************

> One crucial aspect of optimizing an application is choosing the right image formats. Images play a significant role in an app and may take up a lot of memory. Therefore, selecting the best image format is essential. It helps reduce memory usage, speed up the app, and improve its overall performance. 

Reviewer: I would rewrite this paragraph with something like that:
```suggestion
One crucial aspect of optimizing an application is choosing the right image formats. Images can have a significant impact on an app performance and memory usage. Therefore, selecting the best image format is essential. It helps reduce memory usage, speed up the app, and improve its overall performance. 

```
Some UI don't have a lot of images so I think it would be better to write that image *can* have a significant impact

The documentation of MicroUI Flush Visualizer is available :ref:`here<microuiflushvisualizer>`.

Debugging GUIs
--------------

High-level Debugging and Optimizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section provides insights into common issues affecting performances on the high-level side. The following advices will help reduce the MWT processing and drawing time.

Format of UI Resources
**********************

> One crucial aspect of optimizing an application is choosing the right image formats. Images can have a significant impact on an app performance and memory usage. Therefore, selecting the best image format is essential. It helps reduce memory usage, speed up the app, and improve its overall performance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One crucial aspect of optimizing an application is choosing the right image formats. Images can have a significant impact on an app's performance and memory usage. Therefore, selecting the best image format is essential. It helps reduce memory usage, speed up the app, and improve its overall performance. 

```

There are multiple output formats that can be used to convert the images, you can find all of them here: :ref:`Output Formats<section_image_display_output>` .

Cached Images
+++++++++++++

Caching images in your application can greatly enhance its performance and memory efficiency. It enables your app to load images quickly, resulting in a smoother user experience, and speeds up the development process by eliminating the need to regenerate images with every launch.

The cache is enabled by default. It may be disabled by setting the :ref:`Application option<microui_application_options>` `ej.microui.imageConverter.disableCache` to `true`.

Disabling caching may be useful during development when images are frequently changed, ensuring that the latest versions are always used. The decision to enable or disable caching should align with your specific application's requirements and development workflow. 

> Please go to the :ref:`Cached Images<section_caching_generated_images>` Section for more info. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should keep this section. It is not related to the UI performance but only to the application's build process.
The `ej.microui.imageConverter.disableCache` option has no impact on the app's performance or memory efficiency.
We could add a section about caching the images in the application itself but it's not the same thing and it's not related to resources format

- Start the usage of the new 'Watcher' logic after the UI has started
    - With this, the watching of the Pointer envents is initiated for the whole application.   
- Create a Robot
    - The robot is a simple class which uses its own Pointer to move and press at the coordinates it has been instructed.  
    - The robot should have a method which starts a series of instructions to move the Pointer.
- Execute the Robot method containing the instructions
    - The intercepting Event Handling will record and for example log the input.   

This simple way of automating GUI actions can be used to carry out real use cases and evaluate the results.

The :ref:`How to test a GUI application with a (software) robot<_tutorials_software_robot>` tutorial provides detailed insight into this topic. 

Test a GUI Application with the Test Automation Tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To execute regression tests automatically and monitor minor changes th a GUI you can use the `Test Automation <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Tool-UITestAutomation>`_ Tool.

> The Tool provides an automated tool for UI testing.

Reviewer: "The Tool provides a tool" is a bit redundant. Maybe you could right: "The Test Automation Tool allows to automatically test UIs" instead

Author: done

Another example of configuration with DMAs, a DMA has often a burst mode to transfer data, the UI port should use this mode to maximize performance.

Buffers Location in Memory
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

An important step during the development of the UI integration is the memory location of the buffers that will use the GUI to draw to the display.
In an MCU, there may be different types of RAM available that have different properties in terms of quantity and speed.
The fastest RAM should be chosen for the buffers if its size allows it.

Flush Policy
************

As described in the :ref:`section_display` page, there are several flush policies that can be implemented.
The best flush policy should be selected according to the hardware capabilities. Generally, the best flush policy is the switch mode.

Testing GUIs
------------

Before applying UI debugging or optimization techniques, the application behaviour should be tested. There are different ways of doing this.

Test a GUI Application with a Software Robot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is possible to test the GUI of an application via robotic process automation (RPA).

> Robot tests mimick the human user behaviour in the GUI and can help detect various errors by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Robot tests mimic the human user behavior in the GUI and can help detect various errors by
```

> automating behaviour which otherwise would cost too much effort and/or time to execute manually. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automating behavior which otherwise would cost too much effort and/or time to execute manually. 
```

Here are the steps required to use a robot in the MicroEJ environment:

> - Record the robot input events
>     - For this, you need a simple EventHandler which intercepts incoming events, for example from a Pointer, then passes them on to the real event handler

Reviewer: In .rst documents, in a list with sub-items, there should be two line breaks between an item and the first of its sub-items
```suggestion
- Record the robot input events

    - For this, you need a simple EventHandler which intercepts incoming events, for example from a Pointer, then passes them on to the real event handler.
```

- Start the usage of the new 'Watcher' logic after the UI has started
    - With this, the watching of the Pointer envents is initiated for the whole application.   
- Create a Robot
    - The robot is a simple class which uses its own Pointer to move and press at the coordinates it has been instructed.  
    - The robot should have a method which starts a series of instructions to move the Pointer.
- Execute the Robot method containing the instructions
    - The intercepting Event Handling will record and for example log the input.   

This simple way of automating GUI actions can be used to carry out real use cases and evaluate the results.

The :ref:`How to test a GUI application with a (software) robot<_tutorials_software_robot>` tutorial provides detailed insight into this topic. 

Test a GUI Application with the Test Automation Tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To execute regression tests automatically and monitor minor changes th a GUI you can use the `Test Automation <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Tool-UITestAutomation>`_ Tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To execute regression tests automatically and monitor minor changes in a GUI, you can use the `Test Automation <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Tool-UITestAutomation>`_ Tool.
```

The Test Automation Tool allows to automatically test UIs.
It is able to to record a scenario of events on the classes Pointer, Button, LongButton and Joystick and later replay the scenario. 
While replaying a scenario, the tool can also compare the screen with screenshots captured while recording the scenario.

> Scenarios can be stored in a custom path or a default path specified in the application properties.

Author: Right, removed that.

The tool comparison functionality can be integrated with JUnit tests.

> For detailed information about the tool usage please 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed information about the tool usage, please 
```
